# Journal-Week-8

## What I learned: November 16- November 20 edition

Here it is, new edition of my blog! This is the last entry of this second phase, so I’ll try to keep it as short as possible, and then rethink my way of writing (based on the feedback that I get). I must say, rather than just see what I’ve been doing this week (and the videos), I want to make a feedback of the whole month. I believe that I’ve changed, at least a little bit, in the way I see this programming world. Going full speed to my FIRST, PROGRAMMING, project in TEAM, was an experience full of different feelings, going from happiness and emotion, to sadness and perhaps a little bit of doubt.

When I worked in codes, normally it was just me. I wrote everything in my code, and I knew exactly which line was doing what. Also, I didn’t have to worry about doing new branches, or making a merge from dev or even a rebase, because the project I was doing (compared to the one of this phase) was for only one person. Of course, I had many files, and a lot of lines, but the fact that I wrote them all, and the fact that I knew what every variable, function, object was made for, was a great advantage for me.

This experience went out of the window, when we started to check on the issues, dividing them, so that little steps could be done. Then you get the Git tool, where the rebase, merge, commit, push, pull commands have a vital part on the way the project is done (and vital to the team work). With the help of the platform Jhipster, we managed to have a skeleton of the project...it seems good at first right? Well, it was and simultaneously wasn’t. While there where many issues that the platform solved for us, these solutions came with BIG files of code, and in particular for me, it was a syntax that I’ve never seen before! Here’s where the fear started to get in my blood. Questions like “what is this”, “what does that do”, “how am I going to do it” were just some of the things that flew from time to time in my mind. I believe that even a greater feel of this was about letting down my team. Feeling like the weakest link of the chain can be a mighty weight to carry. Luckily, my teammates were able to help me and get me along the way. In a personal matter, in the future when I’m in a team project, I’ll do my best to detect if one of my teammates is feeling that way, so I can do my best to help him/her!

Another part that I believe is integral to my formation here in Nearsoft is about expressing my ideas. I need to explain better what I’m asking, and what are the ideas I’m giving. These ideas need to have a good base when passing them into code. This last phrase is crucial, because with this kind of experience you can know how much time you’ll take for a certain issue, know if you’ll find details in the code, things like this.
I think this part goes hand with hand with knowing how to look up for things. No, we are not perfect, and there’s no way that one person is able to retain LITERALLY all of the information of one specific subject. What we do possess is the ability to look for things...in other words, learn how to google! If you know the problem you’re having, if you understand all of the details that are present in the code, you can have a very specific search, using your time in a very efficient way.

This last part now goes related with knowing how to ask for help. Perhaps this is a big field where I can improve, because I was a little afraid/ had some pride in asking something. What if what I asked is the most basic thing? What would they think of me?!? Wrong, Pedro, wrong! You don’t know everything, and perhaps you’ll never will! I understood this issue mostly at the end of the phase, when everyone in my time was communicating immediately a problem that they were stuck with. I also was impressed by how fast the work went last week, mainly because of this communication and lack of fear! Of course, this is the part where I felt very happy of the work.

Last but not least, we had a meeting with Isaac, talking about what went good and where we need improvement. I personally thought that the communication and lack of knowledge in coding was the issue for me, but Isaac told me to focus on the part of coding (apparently I’m an extroverted person...I have my doubts, but I’ll go with the flow). I’m going to start coding, everyday, as much as I can. Along with the new phase, I’ll try to communicate with a person who has an issue that I can help (of open source). Try to speak to them, understand their way of thinking, so I can print the knowledge of that talk into a great solution in coding!

Overall, I still have the same feeling that I begin the Academy with, emotion and fear, but it’s a good combination to have, I think. When I think about the fear, about questioning myself if I’m able, I just think of all the things I do not know yet, and I see some of my teammates in the Academy. Then I say “I want to be as good as them” and how can I do it? With practice! If anyone of them gave up at the first error that their code printed them, they would not be here...I guess, you can say they inspire me! I hope one day I become the inspiration of someone, of wanting to surpass themselves!

Alright, as promised, here’s a resume of the videos, and what I’m learning from them.

## Nassim Nicholas Taleb - The Black Swan: The Impact of the Highly Improbable

This was a very interesting (and complicated) video. What I mean about the complicated part is because it’s not a “tangible” subject. We are blind to most events that involve randomness, so it is helpful to start thinking about these sudden, unexpected events. This can help you to have a much better interpretation of things around you. The problem with what a black swan is precisely the same thing that makes it so interesting: nothing that’s being done in the past can point to it being likely to happen. In other words...you don’t know how to get there. This too has a massive impact, and with this event, we tend to create explanations of how it happened, to seem like it’s normal, and there’s nothing to worry about (not that there has to be something bad all the time).

Now, I believe the main subject of this is the technology, because it tends to optimize its way of working. Curiously, to have simpler methods and tools in technology, you need to have much more complex solutions. What happens with this? The predictability of the result of things starts to decrease, while the complexity just gets higher, resulting in the same problem that I’ve talked about in the last paragraph. How can we improve this? We need to have more Robustness. This means that we need a better environment to “take care” of the black swans. Converting the complexity into simplicity!

## The optimism bias | Tali Sharot

Wow! This was a great video! Mainly because I somehow felt identified with the message I got….which I think actually describes me. The message was that you can be optimistic and realistic at the same time, to keep a balance. I tend to be a positive person, if there’s a slight light of hope, I usually stick with that light, but I know what is surrounding me, which sometimes are only bad results. Well, the video talks about it (well, it talks of other things, but I got so attached to that part). It also talks about the difference of how you tend to feel about something. 

No matter the result, if you are an optimistic person, you will see only positive things, like the knowledge and experience of what you do, or maybe the reward if you were successful. If you are a negative person, no matter what, you’ll feel that your success was so little, or that your failure was bigger than anything. Now, everything in excess is bad, so be careful. If you are negative about everything, you won’t be able to see real positive things that happen in your life, even if it happens in front of your face. In the other way, if you are blindly positive about everything, you will fail to see different angles in the problem, or maybe just won’t want to see the issue, making it harder to solve, and thus, making it impossible to progress.

What happens here? We need reality checks!  I might sound a little weird (of all the weeks, where marihuana got legalized) but stay with me! Try to “get out of yourself”, leave your body behind, and walk away a little bit, so you can see the complete picture of the problem. With this into account, and combined with the optimistic way of life, I believe this can be a mighty (and positive) weapon to use when affronting any problem that you have.

## How do we heal medicine? 

I believe this is a similar video to one we saw in past weeks, where it talks about comparing the pilots and the doctors, and of course, the way their environment works. In this video, it has a similar tendency to say that something went very wrong in the health path. And as I said in the previous essay, I’ll have a limited comment, because I’m not a doctor, and I’ve never had someone else’s life in my hands, so I don’t know how a situation like that feels. So, here it goes. We are seeing doctors as some kind of semi-gods, where everything they do is seen as the correct thing to do. Again, they handle lifes, so sometimes they feel like that. The wrong part of this is that we don’t see WHY it went wrong, so that error doesn’t happen again, the usual answer to a failed procedure is something like “it was a difficult situation”, and that’s it! 

We then see how there are few and very specialized doctors for something. It actually makes sense that someone studies a very specific part of the body, what doesn’t make sense is that they stop working as a team. “I’M THE SURGEON, EVERYTHING THAT HAPPENS IN THIS OPERATING ROOM IS BECAUSE I COMMAND IT”....and that happens. It’s wrong to see the whole team of the hospital as a meat bag with hands. You need the interaction of everyone, because they too know how to handle situations like that. Ok, maybe they can’t operate, but they can assist you so that your weight and pressure feels lighter. We need groups to take care of people, not just 1 single person. In the words of the video, we need less cowboys, and more pit crews.

## Agile practices 

Alright, let’s try to talk of the most important ones (well, the most interesting ones for me). For the pair programming one...You can basically say that “If you want to go faster, go alone. If you want to go far, go as a team”. The chain is as strong as its weakest link, yes, but it’s more useful to have a chain than just 1 single link right? Beware, sometimes, you don’t need to use teams to solve a problem, sometimes with just one person is enough, so check what are the needs.

For the Continuous Integration part, I loved the analogy the video made! Doing continuous integration is like making a movie, but you’re doing it in parts. When you finish a small group of frames of the movie, you put them in the movie, and run all the movie to see if the story makes sense. If it does, that part becomes part of the main movie. If not, then you have to fix it so it can fit correctly! The same goes for coding. When you have a large project, it’s normal to have different people working on different parts. Some of these parts may get into conflict, so the best way to solve it is to do this C.I., so that everything keeps working, even when you’re adding new parts.

In the Definition of done, I think it’s self explanatory. When you say something is finished, it means that there’s nothing that needs to be addressed later in the project, at least for that part.

The planning poker...it hit the nail, because it was a similar issue that my team had in the project! It explains that every member of the team should be involved and concerned about the estimation, concerns and own thoughts of the planning of the project (the estimation part was the one where we got a little stuck).



## Antifragile: Things That Gain From Disorder - Nassim Taleb - Animated Book Review

The antifragile way...a cool concept!! The fact that you carve to be antifragile is so great. When something breaks, it’s fragile. When something remains the same, it’s robust….but when something gets better the more it gets “damaged”, then you get antifragile! That’s why you should carve for something like that: the more experience you get, the better you’ll develop!


There we go, last essay of the second phase...hope you like it! If you have any questions, you know where to find me!

